---
layout: post
title: '2019-10-14'
date: 2019-10-14 22:39 +0700
categories: [personal, reading]
---
### 1. Code of Ethics:
- Any action of an `unsportsmanlike or unethical` nature during tournament play, in the tournament room, or on the grounds of the
host facility, will be considered a `violation` of the Code of Ethics.
- `Continuation on violation` can be leaded to be fined or `eliminated out of the leaguage`.

### 2. The Match:
- A match shall consist of the first player or team to win `2 out of 3 games`. Each game shall consist of `5 points`, `no A/B`

### 3. To Start a Match:
- A `coin flip` shall precede the start of the match. The team that wins the flip has the choice of table side or first serve. The team
that loses the flip has the remaining option.

### 4. Serve and Ready Protocol:
- A `serve` is defined as dropping the ball into the serving hole at the beginning of a game, after a point is scored, or if the
ball is awarded to a player. The `ready protocol` will be used whenever putting the ball into play.
- **4.1 The serve:**
	+ The serve shall begin with the ball dropped into the serving hole. The player serving the ball must then follow the ready protocol.
  + `No pushing, spinning the ball`. The penalty for violation is about giving the right to serve to opposing team.
- **4.2 Ready Protocol:**
	+ Before the ball can be put into play, the player in possession `must ask` the direct opponent if he or she is `ready`. The
direct opponent has `three seconds` to `respond ready`. The player in possession now has `three seconds` to `put the ball
into play`.

### 5. Subsequent Serves:
- Following the first serve of a match, subsequent serves shall be made by the `team last being scored upon`. The first serve in
subsequent games of a multi-game match shall be made by the `team that lost the preceding game`.
- If the ball is served by the wrong team, and the violation is discovered before the ball is scored, play shall be stopped and the ball shall be served by the proper team. Once the ball is scored, no protests shall be allowed, and play shall continue as if no infraction had been committed.

### 6. Ball in play:
- Once a ball is put into play it shall remain in play until the ball is hit `off the table`, a `dead ball` is declared, `time out` is called, or a `point is scored`. Players are not allowed to touch the ball by hands if `Ball in play`.

### 7. Ball Off the Table:
- If the ball leaves the playing area and strikes the score markers, light fixture, or any object that is not part of the table, or if the
ball rolls or comes to rest on the top of the cabinet, it shall be declared off the table. Otherwise, if the ball hits the top of the side
rails or cabinet ends and subsequently returns to the playing surface, the ball is still in play.
- If the ball `enters the serving hole` and `returns to the playfield` it is still considered to be `in play`. If the
ball `remains in the serving hole`, it will be treated as a `dead ball`.

### 8. Dead Ball;
- A ball shall be declared a dead ball when it has completely stopped its motion and is not within reach of any player figure.
- If the ball is declared dead anywhere between the five-man rods, it shall be put back into play by `serve` by the team who originally served the ball.
- If the ball is declared dead between the goal and five-man rods, it shall be put back into play at the two-man rod nearest the spot of the dead ball. Play shall resume using the `Ready Protocol`.
- A ball that is intentionally made dead shall be awarded to the opposing team for a serve. Example: pushing the ball from the bottom until out of reach

### 9. Time out:
- Each team is allowed one time outs per game during which the players may leave the table. Such time outs shall not exceed 30 seconds. If the ball is in play, time out may only be called by the team in possession of the ball. If the ball is not in play, either team may call time out.
	+ Either team may switch positions during a time out.
	+ A time out called between games shall count towards the number of time-outs allowed in the following game.
	+ A player who removes both hands from the handles and turns completely away from the table while the ball is in play shall be deemed to have requested a time out.
	+ If the team with the ball attempts a shot or pass immediately after requesting a time out, the play shall not count and the team shall be charged with a distraction rather than a time out.
	+ If the team in possession of the ball calls time out while the ball is in play and moving, the time out will not begin until the ball has completely stopped. If the team not in possession of the ball calls a time out when the ball is in play, that team shall be charged with a distraction. If the ball falls into the same team's goal after requesting a time out, the point shall count for the opposing team.
	+ If a team is not ready to play at the end of the 30 second period, that team shall be charged with delay of game.
	+ The ball may be picked up by hand as long as permission is granted by the opponent and is returned to its original position before resuming play.

### 10. Resuming Play After a Time Out:
- Following a time out, the ball shall be put back into play at the rod of possession where the time out was called.
- The `Ready Protocol` must be followed when resuming play following a time out.

### 11. Point Scored:
  - A ball entering the goal shall count as a point, as long as it was legally scored. A ball which enters the goal but returns to the
playing surface and/or leaves the table still counts as a goal.

### 12. Table Sides:
  - After each game is completed, teams have a 60 second time limit to begin the next game. The teams will switch sides after each game. If the teams decide not to switch sides, they must stay on the same sides for the remainder of the match.
  - Going to toilet or any actions of delay of game need to be approved by The Referee.

### 13. Change of Positions:
  - In any doubles event, players may only play the two rods normally designated for his position. Once the ball is put into play,
the players must play the same position until a `point is scored`, a team requests a `time out`, or `a technical foul` is called.
  - Illegally switching positions while the ball is in play will be judged a distraction and the players must return to their original positions. If they the ball, the ball will be served by opposing team.

### 14. Jarring:
- Any `banging of the side walls` or `movement of the table` that causes the opponent to lose possession or prevents them from catching the ball is considered a jarring infraction. Simultaneous bumping of the wall, as part of a pass or shot, is not considered jarring unless there was excessive force that clearly prevented the opponent from gaining possession. Jars are accumulated for the entire match.
	+ Any `touching or contacting` of the `opponent's rods` that causes them to lose possession or prevents them from catching the ball will be considered a jarring infraction.
	+ Jarring of the `table` or excessively recoiling the rod after scoring a shot may be ruled unsportsmanlike behavior if done so in a disrespecting manner directed at the opponent. `Slamming` the rod after a shot while the ball is still in play may be considered jarring.
	+ It is illegal for the player in possession of the ball to slam the rods into the side of the table in order to move the ball away from the wall. The first offense is a warning and subsequent violations will be loss of possession to the opposing's serve. This is not considered a jarring infraction.

### 15. Language and Behavior:
- Unsportsmanlike conduct or comments made directly or indirectly by a player are not allowed. Violations of this rule may be grounds for a technical foul.
	+ Calling the attention of the opposing team away from the game is not allowed.
	+ Cursing by a player shall not be allowed.
	+ The use of a scout in the audience to relay information while the ball is in play shall not be allowed.
	+ Coaching will be allowed, but only during time outs and between games.
	+ The use of headphones, ear-buds, or any similar electronic listening device is not permitted when the ball is in play.

### 16. Time of Possession:
- Possession of the ball shall be limited to `10 seconds on the five-man rod` and `15 seconds on all other rods`. A player is considered to be in possession of the ball the moment it is within reach of a player figure.
- Penalty for delay is loss of possession to the opposing goalie.

### 17. Delay of Game:
- Play shall be continuous, except during time outs. Continuous shall be defined as no more than 5 seconds duration between a ball scored and the beginning of the ready protocol. Over 5 seconds is called a delay.
	+ After a team is charged with delay of game play shall resume in at most 10 seconds. At the end of 10 seconds another delay of game call should be made.

### 18. Dress Code:
- Players who wish to compete in an EHTSF sanctioned event must wear proper sporting attire and are expected to uphold the highest level of personal and professional appearance.

### 19 Penalties:
- `3 charge of delay` will score 1 point for opposing team.
- `3 charge of distraction` will score 1 point for opposing team.
